hey everybody welcome to the ipfs local
and offline collaboration call its
January 15th and we have a couple of
things on the agenda today but the
primary one of which is hearing a little
bit about Nico's work with libre router
and sort of community mesh networking
projects they have going which we'll
learn more about have a couple other
topics we can get to if we have time
so welcome everybody let's just do a
super quick round of intros for anybody
who's newer to the crew I can get us
started my name is teri I work at
protocol labs and I run proto school
which is a educational community and
website tutorials interactive tutorials
on decentralized networking protocols so
a lot of the contents about ipfs right
now and I also organize offline camp
which is an event not specific activity
web but offline first more broadly um so
that's my my connection to all of this
and I run this call I'm going to go
around on my screen so Lydell you're up
next
hi I'm libel my real name is much
another but everyone calls me libel
I work at protocol apps and I work on
ipfs in web browsers usually and some
other stuff like putting the GUI
applications and offline use cases are
close to my heart
time whew awesome and Jonathan hi I'm
Jonathan de Haan I am in a couple
different communities but right now most
active on scuttlebutt and a little bit
on nested I'm and I I work with artists
and and offline communities in New York
mostly yeah awesome thanks and John I
think you to offline can was very
excited to meet him in person Tran tear
up
hi I'm Trent Larsson I work at meta
cheat land governance are we trying to
bring secure land rights especially to
the developing world and a lot of us are
excited about things like
cryptocurrencies and any kind of
distributed systems to help especially
when there's customary manage in the
informal work cool
thanks Jen Yanis you're next on my
screen oh yeah nice I am an academic
hatch College London and also research
and communications have been very
favorite topic for more than a decade
now so I'm interested to hear about new
developments and interests of other
people awesome thanks Janice Nico you
are last on the list for intros and
first for actual topics you can flow
right from one end to the other
Thank You teri hi cool doctor control my
name is Nicholas I I'm an engineer and a
lot of things but right now I
participate in 2 3 organizations that
are the one to you the one that I'm
gonna use my hat on is related to alter
Mundi and it's router but also I the
movement-building coordinator for the
community networks project on the
Association for inclusive communications
and also collaborate pretty often with
registries a Mexican organization that
works with indigenous communities all of
them in the exercise of their right for
communications and specifically I work
on the telecommunications partly so
thank you for inviting me to talk about
Viva router and how the experience has
spin I am really not prepared for this
bit but I put aside some photos to show
you and I actually wanted to bring our
attention to specific concept that I
feel that the river router has
nailed it like like we I think like
throughout these years of working on
community wireless networks and mesh
networks the community of the beaver
mesh that is the operating system that
the author uses has developed and
nurtured along the way and I think it
has been really good
so before order jumping into this let
I'm gonna can I share my screen yes
right yeah you should see it green okay
so do you see my screen darkest so for
those that don't know the router this is
the URL the router or it is basically a
wireless router similar to the one that
you might have at home or a cool job but
it comes embedded from factory for
deploying community mesh wireless
networks this means that the routers
from factory they know how to talk to
each other in order to ask as you add
more routers you extend the coverage of
one single network that covers the whole
area where the routers are and that
means that communities with no technical
background can create net networks to
serve whatever purposes they have for a
bit of a context the reason why we are
doing this is because in the planet
right now we are around six seven
billion people and half of that
population three around three billion
people have no connection to the
Internet
so half of our planet is disconnected to
the Internet
and there's no way right now no solution
no strategy no nothing that in a
foreseeable future those people will be
connected and all the actors in this
area have seven that they will not get
to them the growth of Internet
connectivity has increased for those
that are in cities and decrease or stay
or stole at all to those that live in
rural areas those that are disconnected
it is I think around eighty six percent
of them live in rural areas so under
there are and those that live in rural
areas and have no access connectivity in
general they don't have access to many
things it's not that they just not have
access to internal but they have their
the rest of their needs without they
don't have artists watered food through
education energy is minimal so custom
custom illusions and for all solutions
that are thought from a human Center
design needs need to be used these areas
and the liver router is one of those the
hardware design is from that perspective
and the software design is not
perspective it's open source so if
you're interested into it please dig
into it but today I want to put your
attention to bring your attention to
this dig free approach and that I think
is one of the things that the liberal
doe has developed along throughout the
years the liberal clan polity system
that he comes with a that is called
liberal mesh has developed and it is
about you stability I'm not sure I'm not
a usability expert or you user
experience expert but and we call it a
geek free but maybe it's even it's
already like UX is
we saw that the communities don't have
disposable I didn't have disposable
income so they don't they can't to be
expenses but they don't have a
disposable time either
so even if they can spend to explore
having an at their own network or even
like or like the problem that we have
like offline infrastructure even if they
have the computers and take all the
cellphones and infrastructure to put
those services within your use they
don't have time in order to learn if
they use what we didn't - or even to
explore what they what they need or not
so we saw for our own community because
we live in today
but right now inside the city but I am
that we needed to make it easy for our
communities so buy it for them to be
able to understand how it works to
engage with the solution and to have
like a like a successful feedback from
the experience from the first 30 minutes
of of engagement so let me show you a
few pictures and I haven't sorted them
out so they are gonna be like with no
particular order and I will try to
describe it so the reason why they are
smiling like this is one of the they
were sharing in a feminist gathering how
deliver other works and science
professor and the reason what they were
happy is because there's a big
possibility well at least this is my
understanding of this
there was the possibility for owning the
process let me go this model context
well to what I was telling you about
okay so you can relate with what I am
saying so this is you see mess with my
screen right yes so this for example is
one of the screenshot of one of the
interfaces of the system that is used
for a travel story so communities use
the routers to create a network that
they maintain instead of relying on a
network operator like Verizon or
t-mobile they create maintain and expand
their own network like your mother or
father or my grandma like your neighbor
that has nothing to do with technology
that's what they do so in order to do it
they don't not only need to understand
how it works but also they need to be
able to troubleshoot it when it fails
this is one of the screens where they
travel sherry and it says so this is the
type the name of the node that we are
seeing so the screen the website that is
hosted in one of the routers and each
router has a name in this in this case
the name is the name of the owner and
it's a couple so it's married married
and happy so this is the name of the
urinal and in this case they are in a
screen on there they took a script of a
screen that allows them to know how is
the connection what's the path form for
what what are the nodes that they have
to go through to go from their house
through the internet and when they get
to the internet how that internet is
behaving like how how the relation that
their network has to the Internet is
bhai
and in this case it says from Mary hobby
they know that they are in I have to go
through Wally that is some neighbor I
have an 8 megabits per second connection
throughput so that neighbor and then I
get to the Internet and when I get to
the Internet it says I have I I pee
before it's working ok DNS is working ok
but it seems that you have an issue with
ipv6 so and this screenshot was taken
out of a whatsapp group that they have
when that they used to troubleshoot
their network so this might not be like
that's significant for us right now but
let me show you another screenshot that
I'm seeing right now
so this is another screenshot so this is
another neighbor so it says this is at
Wally's house let me see if I can't
remove menu I can't remove this thing
there you go do you see it there yeah so
this is at Wally's house this was in
another moment the best link that way it
has it's with Mary hobby but this screen
when when they use when when Wally took
a screenshot he wanted to the group so
the rest of the community members that
travel should and maintain their network
like layman people not
technicians so pay attention to one
specific thing the one that his circle
with the Sketchup on his on his phone he
said it seems I don't know what I'm
looking at but it seems that this thing
that I'm pointing out to this screenshot
is failing that it has something wrong
and the reason and wait the reason why I
want to show you this is because because
the user has engaged with the app
regularly they got to know how it
behaves
it's they discover
the interface as they go through the
experience of relating with the
technology by having abstractions that
are clear not at least like this is this
Hawaii I mean III these are my thoughts
like I I'm thinking out loud
sorry just to share how I feel about
these things by by having an abstraction
that is clear to them and I can relate
with it they they share their insights
and through sharing their insights they
troubleshoot the platform but and also
because the reality like they are
instead they are engagement with the
solution that is with a with a platform
is related to what happens in their
physical life like in this case the
router was not working so they went to
the app looking for answers and
something changed from the last time
they saw there in this case there's an X
where there should be mark so he pointed
that out so they will also relate a lot
with this interface that is an interface
that is related to the alignment of the
antenna so these wireless routers go
outside go outdoors not inside our
houses and the antennas are not like the
ones that you're used to like the sticks
that are on our home routers they are
directional so you have to point them in
the direction that you want and a not so
connected to the neighbor your name to
your neighbor and this number is a
increases as you the more the higher the
number the better signal you have and
they exchange screenshots to make sure
because because not everyone knows how
well a signal can be or if a link is
well good enough or things like that
they access their collective knowledge
but chip
by sharing screenshots of what they are
looking at what else can I show you so
okay
another thing that we do and this
screenshot shows a little bit of about
that is when they engage with technology
and the technology helps them be
confident about the use of it they get
excited and want to know more and we get
to do things that you don't we I mean we
you don't usually do in this case for
example I was in Mexico and one thing
that I haven't told you is that some of
you might not be but I travel around the
world giving workshops on how to do
these things like I work with indigenous
communities and travel basically all the
time in this case it was in Mexico and
they the guys and girls that are in the
photo are from a community in what salon
Puebla they are indigenous and and they
decided to create their own
infrastructure so we started doing a
workshop and they wanted to learn how to
do the cabling
so once you like once they see that it's
actually something that they could
engage when they once they see the light
on the other side of the tunnel they can
they it happens more often than not that
they choose to do they go through the
light because they can assess if it's
something that they would like to do or
not and a lot of times happen in
technology that because things get
complex making a decision it's more a
crowd like you follow the crowd that is
instead of making your own decisions so
it's important to put make things simple
enough so we can be more conscious about
the choices that we do in this case this
was the same time and because the in
this case bonnie already
he's mine about it like I was like those
legs that are on you're on the left of
the father are mine he was explaining it
instead of me like once they because
it's something that is simple to
understand I actually have given now I
will send with I will share with you a
recording of one of the workshop for
they have given it's 45 minutes like
what with for the five minutes you
understand the whole thing like from top
to bottom you can go and deploy networks
in the whole planet if you want and
that's amazing because with no technical
knowledge you can go from nothing so
connecting the whole planet if you want
what else I wanted to shape we have a
few screenshots of how the app works so
these are the interfaces some of them
are difficult to like for example this
one we want to work on it
this is the one that you saw the
connecting to the internet and how to
like the bandwidth from one hop to the
other so in this case in order to get to
the internet you had to go through a lot
of people like Marisa then Cesar then
also noticed and also Lotus
backbone then seated America a lot of
hops from one to the nation you can see
how much bandwidth you have from one hop
to the other and how well the link is
based on the color for example let me
show you another one that has different
colors let's see if I find one there's
one
no there is no okay this is another
thing that I want to share with you
maybe another thing that they live that
this has is like we we try to make the
network be accessible not only to those
that have technical skills or not like
not only to deploy the network but also
to use the network in ways that we are
not used to like in like you know what
every day
activities like for example I'm not sure
if what we may be all of us article we
have technical background or technical
skills but I would say my mother that is
an accountant she's not used to deploy
services like provide services she she
uses Internet in a very consumeristic
way she might share things on Facebook
but she's still consuming Facebook
services she's not providing services
she's using platforms for that so we
made the new router make send like make
it easy for communities to also be able
to have services local services because
in general the relation to the Internet
is distant there's they are far from
what the intimate basically is so in
this case you can see in the URL that it
says number one radio so the live router
registers the host names of the devices
that you connect to the internet and
makes those host names available as if
they were any other host name any other
URL on the Internet
so any computer that you connect to the
network that provides a service so let's
say you have a Raspberry Pi and you have
a blog but you don't Laurie the micro SD
micro SD card image of WordPress serve
and you put it on a Raspberry Pi and you
just connect that Raspberry Pi to the
network that Raspberry Pi is going to be
accessible on the network by its name
not only by its IP address and that
increases the usability of the network
because now you can go to your neighbors
and say go to your browser put Nico's
blog and it will appear and and that is
in it's incredible how much it changes
let me show you another picture so this
was I was in in India can you a little
bit on how this last bit that you
mentioned works exactly sure instead of
sure and thank you for actually if
anyone wants to interrupt me I'm
completely okay so basically what
happens is the leaver router is a set of
tools it's not just a network so the
routers with each other they create a
mesh that has that is layer 2 network
and layer 3 network so it means that you
all of the all of the devices that
connects all of the routers that are
part of the same mesh behave as if they
were in the same room although they
might be in different parts of the
village and and also and we also control
what to do with the different services
that run on top of the network one of
the services that we control is the DHCP
server the DHCP servers for those that
know is the one that gives IP addresses
hood computers that connect to the
network so when a computer connects to
the network and ask for an IP address
the computer also tells the Comte de GP
server its name and what we have done is
basically the DHCP server will give that
computer or phone an IP address to
access the network and it will register
on the DNS server that also runs on each
of the devices that host name that has
given been given by that new device on
the DNS host file so it can be
accessible to all of the devices on the
network that's how it's done and by the
way everything is open-source like they
opened they saw this open
miss for the open stores the hardware is
open source so the liver router hardware
it's also open source and it's
accessible on our github account I don't
know have I replied to your question yes
yes so I was in India a month ago this
here is called I forgot her name Shalini
no anyway so she says sixteen years old
she runs a community radio in her
village the radio is not an FM radio
it's an intimate well a network radio
that is hosting a device that I don't
have the picture here but now she is
deploying a mesh network in her village
in order for the community to be able to
access the radio in the whole village
and she's doing it by herself she's
doing it cheechee like we were holding
her hand so she could feel I I was
holding like like holding her hand with
my coats in order of for health feel
confident and explaining the process of
alignment of antennas but basically she
was installing this node in her house
and that same day Shalini and easy
Shalini she was installing the other
node in the craft space hold on I think
I have picture of the husband's here no
I don't have a picture so these two
routers through their own like they
learned this like weekend to do this and
they deployed a network in their village
by themselves using these interfaces and
the hard work that they got from us yes
what are so and they actually deploy a
tree service this is the number one way
the basis
had a Aradia all in one weekend like
they deploy the netcode and they deploy
the services and they started
broadcasting they are Network radio by
themselves nearby this is near Bangalore
okay let me see if I have any specific
to share with you so this is the the
setup or this submarine pot which out
here this is in Spanish so the interface
is one of the things that we have done
is localization like everything is in
local language then it can be localized
in indigenous languages right now it's
we haven't yet but we are in the process
of doing it in some major languages in
different countries that we are
supporting their process in this case it
was Mexico in what salon Mexico let me
show you a bit of other interfaces let
me see if there's something in
particular that would be Bollywood see
here for example it says roar so it
means that something was happening
within with that note that though they
were able to get to the internet there
was a network that didn't allow them to
diagnose would like the connection the
value in with them and those are things
that allow them to focus their efforts
and the earnings and their knowledge in
the place where the problem was like
like okay here there was there's another
one in this case the app has also
mapping so they can know where everyone
is and who is connected with who and in
this case they were saying okay there's
this this so they have to located the
nodes in a map each node in their own
map and in this case the node was in the
wrong place it should be where the green
one is where when it was in the blue one
so they were also diagnosing a Mis
located known
okay so this was a workshop another
thing is once if the technology is
accessible and so another another
important thing is when we make
technology accessible we we make them
nourishes they can challenge the
technology if they understand how it
works they can discuss about it they can
say I like this or I don't like that
this was a workshop that I gave in
Chiapas Mexico for community journalists
and well in this case they were taking a
photo of the router but in this workshop
they they said okay this this doesn't
work in our city like I work in in the
parinirvana area and we would like to
have our own network in a in a slum but
this would not work because of this this
and that and they are not technicians
they are not prepared to develop these
things but they the technology allowed
them to challenge it to say though I
don't know how to do it I understand how
it works so I can say I would like it
different and then we can talk about
that okay
I there are some more pictures one of
the girls doing alignment the other side
doing like trying to preparing for the
line and I don't know yeah there are
more pictures I just made a selection
but if you have any questions maybe next
time I can bring more insights out of
the we are already there are ugly
routers in 17 countries right now more
or less and they are it's going to be a
very level
like general availability in a few
months but it's already available for
those that want to try and one help us
polished it polish it it would be super
interesting for us like the D well is
paramount and the unconnected will be
the ones that will shift the internet
forever like half of the plant is
disconnected and the way they will get
connected will define how the internet
will be in the coming years so we want
to go for let's say one tenth like one
not one percent one per thousand would
be so thirty million people connected
through this technology and we want it
to be with the D word so I think we need
to reflect about both infrastructure and
also how we have we we make them like we
we support them in that process how the
web is approachable but by not only the
people that have access to technology
already but also those that are not yeah
I think that the onboarding issue and
approachability is one of the biggest
problems I see kind of across the d web
scenario so I think it's fabulous that
you're making something that's very easy
to start with and not feel bogged down
by technical details I think that the
concept of self hosting and when you get
into the vocabulary of the web and
federated this and run your own that it
gets very overwhelming so that's really
awesome I have a question for you about
what happens before all of the stuff
you've just shown us how are these
communities learning that this is even
an option for them and who's paying for
the equipment and how much does it cost
okay so right now the communities that
have already received live routers
have known about it through I would say
mainly through world aid so it would be
organizations NGOs or development
agencies that might have gotten the
information to them and they got in
touch with us a lot has been through the
journey so I have been in person in many
parts of the planet in different summits
where communities are exploring these
things Internet Society has done an
amazing job in doing outreach to those
NGOs that have gotten into this topic
and the community networks movement has
been steadily growing though it's still
stagnant like still in its infancy but
it has been through the community
network advocacy process that most of
the people that has gotten have gotten
root and those knew about it in relation
to how much it costs right now it costs
one hundred and seventy dollars with
shipping including around $170 it's a
the number that we use as a riff like a
reference like the number the number
that we gave give to the communities for
them to think about the for the reality
of it we want it to be around $100
that's our target but we're not gonna
get there anytime soon
because basically the reason it's
actually a pretty simple thing like
there's one thing that we don't have
that companies have that is escape like
we don't have upfront money to spend on
manufacturing these things and we don't
have a distribution network that
that create the man based on the market
we are not a company here an NGO we are
actually a grassroots we are not even an
NGO so we are not here for the money we
are not getting any profit from this so
there are all the mechanisms the various
to have are not there and there is not
gonna be a distribution that we really
because this is not a market that is
interesting for them like for any
capital specific specific capital what I
see
so communities have paid for it and NGOs
have paid for it right now this is for
progressive communications like there
are two main NGOs that have put money
into it like in purchasing units a verb
for price of Communications one of them
a PC org and Internet Society has been
the other like these are the main the
two main buyers right now but this is
like in the last three four months that
we have been selling the first units
that are basically for unit like testing
like testing him on the field but it's
not available yet some communities have
already started purchasing them with
your own resources so gathering their
own money and putting it at the service
of this in Mexico mainly and Myanmar and
India and Colombia so and right now some
of the development agencies so UN United
Nations for Refugees have done and when
the first order the first purchase of
them and we will do a pilot with them in
refugee territory we are also planning
to do so there's something that I feel I
have I have the guts that might work
that is in relation to global aid but
not coming from
agencies but from the layman like people
like you and me like everyday people and
I think and I think that maybe a
crowdfunding campaign might gather a lot
of people so we might be exploring
crowdfunding soonish like this year that
would be interesting because I think you
probably have a lot of folks who aren't
passionate about the web but in much
more privileged scenarios who might be
able to afford to contribute to
something like that even though they
don't need to be the end user of it I
saw a question from Trent in the chat
about when you expect people to be able
to purchase them directly on the website
can you say that again yeah when you
expect people to be able to purchase
them here actually I would say two to
three months yeah that's a I guess it's
a very good guess yeah but if you if you
want to get your hands on one of them
you can already send me an email and you
can get you again we are already selling
them it's not it's just we are not doing
it probably and mainly because what we
want is to have more advocates like we
want more people that want to test it it
would work i we have been testing at the
hard work for almost three years so we
are pretty confident about the outcomes
of it but yeah as many I said we I can
have developed a minute the more is the
better let me show the screen a little
like one minute more just to show you a
few links a few units I will paste in
the document so the websites URL you
already have it live router at all then
at
docstoc Alterman d dotnet there are
fewer URLs the
texts of the documents in English are in
English but the rest of the site is in
Spanish and there are a few documents
that explain what community networks are
what does it mean to build your own
piece of Internet and he explains the
foundations of it like what what it
means to build your internet and what it
means to build your like - so what's the
Internet and how do we make it our own
in this case is more about and and what
what it entails like what what are the
what's the process what what are the
challenges what other responsibilities
do we have - a few documents are still
yet to be translated this one and unders
and because this is completely related
to the land that we inhabit some of them
are related so understanding our
territory and being able to plan what we
are going to so some of the documents
are related so community organization
not necessary to technical things but we
you need to understanding some of the
technical aspects there are videos about
it so you will find some videos about in
relation to the documents like this
pulse battery mapping that has a video
and the document or the making how to
make another cable and the last document
that I want to show you is the
commentary that we have just released
and it's called comunidades as in the
internet that will be communities
building the internet that document the
experience of a Quintana Libre that is
the community that has inspired this all
like all all of this and how that
community has gone from not being
connected so being the inspiration to
other communities to follow their steps
the the video is in Spanish but if you
go
I don't know if you know this a lot of
people don't so if you enable subtitles
then you go to the adjustment the
settings and you can ask Google to
translate them to whatever language you
use it happens for us Spanish people
that like spanish-speaking people that
we often need to translate an English
video so you can see the documentary
subtitled in English by asking Google to
subtitle Divini for you and it's
actually it's both I've been in the a
very good story and a beautiful
documentary like it it has a beautiful
images very good narrative good music
you will enjoy it for sure I will not be
singing tonight and sure I will I will
actually do it now so we don't forget we
stop this and find the chat here it is
the document the documentary is this one
the documentation is toxic
Altamonte net rope and the links to the
other videos are there in the
documentary eh okay thank you for
listening if you have any other
questions I'm awesome
thank you
so I know Jonathan had one topic that he
had in mind if we have time we have
about 10 minutes left right now are
there any pressing questions and what
we've just been talking about
or shall we move along and Nicolas to
take a look at the chat because there
have been a few comments kind of for you
that of things that could help you as
you go forward with the project so let
you peruse those Jonathan we have 10
minutes left did you want to talk to us
about the community building guidelines
yeah um thank thank you for that Nico
there's a lot of things that I'm going
to ask you questions on outside this
chat and also see if we can adopt more
thoughtful in our faces for kind of the
work we're doing in New York and with my
CMS you think you have some really good
implementations um since we only have
ten minutes I'm not going to dig into it
too much but I'm participating in a
project it's a yet another scuttlebutt
client called oasis that is really
simple and it's like a web-based client
it doesn't have any JavaScript on the
client side so it's really fast works on
a lot of devices as well power is
surprisingly usable um and we've come up
we found some really interesting no
tricks
for HTML and CSS but what came up
recently was the adoption of a new
development process that led me through
a rabbit hole and it's called the
collective code construction contract
and I'll share links to it shortly it's
a little hard because I'm a mobile right
now but it was built by one of the
authors of 0 mq which is a relatively
popular open source project and I you
can find the the construction contract
on its own is pretty short it's like two
pages long but it's the reasons behind
it are embedded in a book called social
architecture which is this like six
chapter book around yeah how to
architect social groups so how to think
about scaling communities and from this
I'm just gonna pull up a few things that
resonated with me and hopefully this you
know
since we only have 10 minutes if any of
these ideas are super interesting or
you've been thinking about we should
just follow up in discussion group or
bring it up at another meeting however
you want to do it yeah so real quickly
the the number one goal of the
construction contract is the size and
health of the community so it's not
technical quality or profits or
performance or market share or reach
it's just how many people are
contributing to the project this makes
it easy to measure the effectiveness of
like any of the ideas within it and kind
of sets the tone and it's mostly meant
for software projects so again the scope
is not all communities but I think there
are some you know very software specific
ideas in here and we're going we're
going to accept an implementation of
this that will we're going to accept an
implementation to this and and iterate
on it essentially so to get into the
most interesting part for me oh I'm have
video
I don't think videos necessary but yeah
the one thing that is something that
I've been trying to articulate for a
while in smaller communities of people
who don't identify as technologists in
our communities mostly is like accepting
contributions and that first time being
important so in the cccc there's a
really interesting call out I'm just
going to quote it maintainer z' may
merge incorrect patches from other
contributors with the goals of ending
fruitless discussions capturing
lots of patches in the historical record
and engaging with the contributor on
improving their patch quality I'm gonna
skip over a and B because they're kind
of weird and I don't understand them
that well right now but yeah I'm just
going to read through this and if this
resonates let's talk so it turns out
that accepting and perfect patches
rapidly or engaging an optimistic
merging works better all around and
insisting that contributors deliver
perfect work standard practice or
pessimistic merging is to wait until
continuous integration testing is done
do a code review test the patch on a
branch provide feedback the author can
then fix the patch and then test review
cycle starts again and the maintainer
can make value judgments like I don't
like how you do this or this doesn't fit
with our project vision in the worst
case patches can wait for weeks or
months to be accepted or they're never
accepted or they're rejected with
various excuses in argumentation
pessimistic merging is how most projects
works and I believe most projects get it
wrong
it tells new contributors that they're
guilty until proven is innocent which is
a negative message that creates negative
emotions contributors will just look for
alternatives it gives maintained areas
power over new contributors which many
maintain errs abuse and that abuse can
be subconscious but it is widespread
maintain errs inherently strive to
remain important to their project and
think and keep out potential competitors
by delaying unblocking their patches
they will I don't think that pettiness
really I haven't encountered that in the
communities that I've seen but I at
least at the scale of zero on cue they
found that a problem it opens the door
to me discrimination and it slows down
the learning cycle and it gives
outsiders the chance to troll the
project and it puts the burden on the
individual contributors so to frame this
let's look at four types of
contributions or patches there are good
contributors who know the rules that
exist already and right excellent
perfect patches they're good
contributors who make mistakes and you
write useful yet broken patches there
are mediocre contributors who make
patches that no one notices or cares
about and there are charge contributors
who ignore the rules and write with
these common toxic patches
in all four of these areas pessimistic
merging has a worse outcome than
optimistic merging pessimistic merging
assumes that all patches are toxic until
they're proven good whereas in reality
most tend to be useful and just like you
know not any contributors gonna have the
full context of a project but it's worth
taking what they do and improving upon
it and finally an example of how the
outcomes are better with optimistic
merging over pessimistic let's say that
you have a good contributor who knows
the rules and writes a excellent patch
infesting a stick merging depending on
unspecified arbitrary criteria patch may
be merged rapidly or so be happy
sometimes good good contributor were
left with bad feelings and optimistic
merging a good contributor feels happy
and appreciated and may continue to
provide excellent patches until they're
done you know with the project now you
have a good contributor who makes
mistakes but writes it a useful and
maybe broken patch they good contributor
retreats fixes the patch comes back
somewhat humiliated in pessimistic
merging and optimistic merging another
contributor helps them fix their patch
and just the light cycle of the project
is a much harder latency between the
idea and like getting it out to people
this goes on and on um we're super
pressed for time so generally what I've
found is that optimistic merging like
gives people responsibility and
ownership and creates conditions for
mentoring and coaching and this is like
a small slice of the ideas behind what
the code construction contract is but if
I was to boil it down to how you get to
a healthy community where people are
moving from just being like a consumer
to a producer or taking their own
ownership whatever that means to them
it's divestment of like ownership from
the creators and figuring this is just
like one way in specifically software
projects that we're going to experiment
in Oasis and yeah divesting our own
ownership in fact founder ownership and
seeing if that creates a healthy
community so I be really interested in
seeing in a year from now all the other
kind of like explicit rules we adopt and
if they turn out how we think they will
there's a few things we we've already
disagreed about in the community that
like we want to adopt for our own so
what's nice is the c-4 is a like more of
a protocol it's not like a license so
you it's kind of a set of criteria you
make an implementation of it and then
you iterate on that implementation so
this is also like it reflects how my
personal contributions to open-source
have been their projects who have merged
obviously broken patches from me almost
immediately and I've become long-time
contributors and in those projects
versus ones that have a totally
reasonable process and have you know
understand what it's going for it but
we're going to be erring on the side of
you know accepting broken things as
quickly as possible to help like
everyone involved really
so that sounds interesting let's stop
that's an interesting concept yeah it's
definitely that you know adds in kind of
you web stuff more generally that whole
process of onboarding and getting
started and feeling like you're
participated in a community really
requires some open arms to help you get
in there and you make a great point
about the you know there are people who
are willing to contribute to projects
like on github there there are plenty of
people whose skillset might be in like
amazing writing or things like that
where they could make a lot of
contributions to a project that aren't
the technical stuff but then they're in
github lambs trying to make those
contributions in a way that's unfamiliar
and all of that stuff so welcoming
people with a broad background is
awesome as well yeah we found that like
having these implicit rules are really
bad if you've ever read the tyranny of
structure listeners it's a great article
that kind of brings about the reason for
even putting this down for being a
signal of like here here's what we
recognize exists already so we can talk
about it so we can improve it like
allowing like non code contributions and
also part of c4 it actually cuts out a
lot of features of like the tools that
we use including including like like get
branches are not to be used well I
should have had my dude
video on for that but basically reducing
the burden of learning a lot of tools
for those who don't need to we're in the
depth of those tools to contribute is
the theory behind that so yeah
yeah I so I took some notes as you spoke
but if you don't mind going back into
the doc later and dropping in any
relevant links oh great yep any quick
questions for Jonathan before we say
goodbye well thanks for sharing and
thanks to Nicholas also that was really
cool to see the work that Libre Runner
is doing and we've added many many links
to the notes from too
I sculpt so feel free to go check those
out us you want to learn more and is it
okay to poppier so you shared your email
address oh yeah it's in there perfect so
Nico's contact information is also in
the notes if anyone would like to get in
touch directly for more details or to
help the testing center up cool well
it's great to see you all
I'm just looking at the calendar quickly
so in February our third Thursday Oh
Wednesday that's why I won't come up
with my calendar yep so third was sense
Oh February 19th will be our next call
and I will update the same github issue
that we use so if anyone's not already
doing it if you watch the github issue
for this call and you'll see the
conversation about topics coming up next
and reminders of what all happens so
please feel free to do that or check out
the repo in general I've learnt shoes
for discussions alright can you share
the link to the notes in the github
issue - yes they're in there so that
when you see link to agenda its the
agenda slash notes are all the same
document so in the issue it'll be there
but when I send I'll send out a little
recap and all I'll read highlight those
I will just right now in the chat peace
OS to the github issue also link to cool
all right great to see everyone today
and then look forward to seeing you next
month and chatting in between about
course if that you reckon on thanks for
coming by thank you